--- Page 1 ---
& 
Level 1:  Session 2

--- Page 2 ---
Computer & human vision system
OpenCV 
 Haar Cascade Algorithm
All rights reserved

--- Page 3 ---
All rights reserved
Face Detection
--- Page 4 ---
All rights reserved
The human vision system is a biological system that is made up of the eyes, optic nerves, and brain. 
It is designed to perceive and interpret visual information in real-time, using a complex network of 
neurons and cognitive processes. The human vision system is capable of perceiving and understanding 
the visual world in incredible detail, recognizing faces, objects, and scenes in a fraction of a second.
the computer vision system is an artificial 
system designed to emulate the human vision 
system using algorithms and machine 
learning techniques. It involves the use of 
digital cameras, image processing 
algorithms, and machine learning models to 
extract information from visual data.

--- Page 5 ---
All rights reserved
Requirements 
We will need 2 libraries :
I. Numpy
II. Opencv-python

--- Page 6 ---
All rights reserved
Install library 
Use commend :
pip install opencv-python

--- Page 7 ---
All rights reserved
OpenCV
OpenCV-Python is a library of 
Python bindings designed to solve 
computer vision problems.
Computer vision
is a field of AI that trains computers to 
capture and interpret information from 
image and video data. By applying 
machine learning (ML) models to images, 
computers can classify objects and 
respond—like unlocking your smartphone 
when it recognizes your face.
--- Page 8 ---
All rights reserved
OpenCV use Haar Cascade Algorithm to detect the face 
A Haar-like feature consists of dark regions and light regions. It produces a single value by taking 
the difference of the sum of the intensities of the dark regions and the sum of the intensities of light 
regions. It is done to extract useful elements necessary for identifying an object.

--- Page 9 ---
All rights reserved
haar-cascade XML files for face detection.
--- Page 10 ---
All rights reserved
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/face-detection-
using-cascade-classifier-using-opencv-python/
(img, scale, Minimum-Neighbours)
(img,topPoint,endPoint,color,boxSize)
--- Page 11 ---
All rights reserved
H.W
Write 3 differences between the human vision 
system and the computer vision system.
Write a simple Python code snippet to read and 
display an image using OpenCV.

