--- Page 1 ---
& 
Level 2:  Session 1

--- Page 2 ---
Deep Learning
Human Brain  VS Computer
Supervised vs unsupervised learning
CNN
Matplotlib
All rights reserved

--- Page 3 ---
All rights reserved
Human Brain  VS Computer
Within Deep Learning, a Convolutional Neural Network or 
CNN is a type of artificial neural network, which is widely 
used for image/object recognition and classification. Deep 
Learning thus recognizes objects in an image by using a 
CNN.
      
          
      
▪ Human brain consist of 100 miliar  nerve cell
▪ nerve cell receive and transmit messages 
between the brain, spinal cord, and other 
parts of the body.
▪ Neurons are capable of detecting, receiving, 
and transmitting a variety of inputs
--- Page 4 ---
All rights reserved
Brain image recognitions
CNN ما يقوم به الذكاء الاصطناعي وخاصا
هو محاوله ايجاد الخصائص والمميزات التي تحدد الشكل وتميزه عن 
غيره من الاشياء كما يفعل المخ لتحديد هل ينظر الشخص الي 
الامام ام الي اليمين وهل هذه صوره بطه ام ارنب
Do you see a rabbit or a duck?
That's enough with the games. The point to be made here is that 
your brain classifies objects in an image based on the features 
that it detects first.
The previous images were designed so that what you see in them 
depends on the line and the angle that your brain decides to begin 
its "feature detection" expedition from.
As we proceed in our section on convolutional neural networks, 
you will realize the staggering degree of similarity between how 
these networks operate and how your brain does. They, too, 
categorize objects or images based on the set of features that 
are passed through them and that they manage to detect.
--- Page 5 ---
All rights reserved
Image Representation 
*The image is store in array 

--- Page 6 ---
All rights reserved
Deep learning is a class of machine learning algorithms that uses multiple layers to progressively 
extract higher-level features from the raw input.
Deep Learning 
These neural networks attempt to simulate the behavior of the human brain

--- Page 7 ---
All rights reserved
Supervised : It is defined by its use of labeled datasets to train algorithms 
that to classify data or predict outcomes accurately.
Supervised vs unsupervised learning

--- Page 8 ---
All rights reserved
Different between CNN and FC (Fully Connected)
fully connected networkهي عبارة عن شبكة عصبية جميع
وحداتها متصلة مع بعضها البعض. هذه تعتبر احدى عيوب 
Multilayer perceptronلانه حنحتاج كمية اوزان عالية
الحل انه نستخدم convolutional layer. الconvolutional 
operationsفيconvolutional layer تدعم مشاركة الاوزان
weightsبين الوحدات العصبية.
مشاركة الاوزان في convolutional layerيسمح لنا من
استغلال ترابط pixels مع بعضها البعض. لان مثل ما 
نرى كل pixelيوجد بجانبهpixelاخر وهو جاره وهكذا.  
فال convolutional operations in convolutional layer 
يسمح لنا بالمحافظة على اجزاء الصورة مع بعضها 
البعض في مختلف الطبقات. يعني تخيل انه وجدنا 
الوزن الخاص بالعين للرجل في الصورة اعلاه. والعين 
موجودة في اكثر من pixel. فاحنا مجرد ما وجدنا الوزن
weight للpixel الاول، ما يحتاج نحسب الpixel الثاني
لان حنشارك الاوزان وبالتالي كل البكسلين مع بعضهم 
البعض يكونون لي شكل العين
--- Page 9 ---
All rights reserved
CNN
Convolutional Neural Network is a Deep 
Learning algorithm specially designed for 
working with Images and videos. It takes 
images as inputs, extracts and learns the 
features of the image, and classifies them 
based on the learned features.
Tries to simulate the brain to find the features
--- Page 10 ---
All rights reserved
CNN Layers 
1. Convolutional Layer
   Finding feature & apply filters 
2. Pooling layer
    downsize & keep important feature 
3. Flatting layer
    convert 1D array 
4. Full connection
    build needed connectors
--- Page 11 ---
All rights reserved
Convolutional Layer

--- Page 12 ---
All rights reserved
decides whether a neuron should be activated or not. 
Convolutional Layer
-
Activation Function
decide whether the neuron's input to the network is 
important or not in the process of prediction using 
simpler mathematical operations.

--- Page 13 ---
All rights reserved

--- Page 14 ---
All rights reserved
Pooling layer

--- Page 15 ---
All rights reserved
Flatting layer
Therefore, you need to convert the output of the convolutional part of the CNN into 
a ID feature vector , to be used by the ANN part of it
--- Page 16 ---
All rights reserved
Full connection (dense)
Dense Layer is simple layer of neurons in which each neuron receives input from all 
the neurons of previous layer, thus called as dense.
Dense Layer is used to classify image based on output from convolutional layers.

--- Page 17 ---
All rights reserved
Matplotlib
Matplotlib is a comprehensive library for 
creating static, animated, and interactive 
visualizations in Python.
pip install matplotlib
--- Page 18 ---
All rights reserved
H.W
Using matplot draw figure that  describe 
your favorite fruit with present like that :   
1- Create a figure and axis object
2- Create a bar chart

