--- Page 1 ---
& 
Level 3:  Session 1

--- Page 2 ---
Object Detection
DNN 
Dnn_detectionmodel
All rights reserved

--- Page 3 ---
All rights reserved
Object Detection

--- Page 4 ---
All rights reserved
Object Detection
is a computer vision technique that 
allows us to identify and locate objects in 
an image or video.
Object Detection models allow 
users to identify objects of 
certain defined classes. Object 
detection models receive an 
image as input and output the 
images with bounding boxes and 
labels on detected objects.
--- Page 5 ---
All rights reserved
Required library 
pip install opencv-python
Our 
Today 
Project 
--- Page 6 ---
All rights reserved
DNN
stands for Deep Neural Networks. It refers to a type of artificial neural network that is composed of 
multiple layers of nodes, which are designed to automatically learn and extract features from data. 
Deep neural networks are capable of performing complex tasks such as image and speech 
recognition, natural language processing, and many others.
Dnn_detectionmodel
class provides an easy-to-use and efficient way to 
perform object detection using deep learning models 
in OpenCV.
--- Page 7 ---
All rights reserved

--- Page 8 ---
All rights reserved
Mode Is “rt" To Read A File As Text
Strip() Function, It Removes Those Characters Or Symbols From The Beginning And The End .
Split() Function Breaks Up A String To Return The List Of All Strings
Models files which have the project algorithms 
--- Page 9 ---
All rights reserved
Dnn_detectionmodel :Create detection model from network represented in one of the supported formats.
 
Model   Binary file contains trained weights.
Config  Text file contains network configuration.
Setinputsize, Setinputscale,setinputmean,setinputswaprb                     Model’s Values 

--- Page 10 ---
All rights reserved
[out] classIds Class indexes in result detection.
[out] confidences A set of corresponding confidences.
[out] boxes A set of bounding boxes.
[in] confThreshold A threshold used to filter boxes by confidences.
Loop for window
confidence threshold is the minimum score that 
the model will consider the prediction to be a true 
prediction
--- Page 11 ---
All rights reserved
H.W
Real-Life Application)
Imagine you are designing a smart security camera that uses object 
detection.Answer the following:
• List three objects your camera should be able to detect.
• Explain why object detection is important for this device.
• Give one example of how a wrong detection (low confidence prediction) could 
cause a problem.
Load a pre-trained DNN model (you don’t need to actually provide the model files).
Set the input size of the model to (320, 320).
Print a message saying: "Model Loaded Successfully".

